Speaking of building the site,
let's get this thing up and built, yeah.
So I've already pushed
everything up to GitHub.
And what I wanna do now is I
want to initialize a new site.
So I'm going to use netlify today,
I worked for netlify.
So that that influences my decisions,
but even before I worked for
nullify it was the place that I
would deploy because it's just so
much easier than other
tools that I've used.
So actually, let me pull up,
me open a window with my own profile so
that I can actually get
logged into things here.
It's what I use for all of my sites and
what we're gonna be using
specifically today.
Is the netlify COI because it's just very
good, like it just makes my life easier.
So the same way that I
used the the GitHub COI,
I'm going to use the netlify COI so
to do that you can install it globally
with NPM i dash g netlify COI I
already have it installed.
But if you look at it,
what you're gonna see is I'm using
the Netlify CLI version 6.1.0,
if you already have it installed, make
sure you install the latest version so
that you are able too get all the benefits
of what we're about to do here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to looking at this and
see there's no like Netlify
specific files here.
So let me run Netlify in it,
all right, I guess I'll log in first.
So netlify login, and it's gonna
show me that I'm already logged in.
If I wasn't, it would take me to
the Netlify site and just say like, hey,
do you want to allow this to work and
it would say yes.
And you can make sure that you're
logged in by running Netlify status.
I'm using MTL, which is a shorthand,
you can also run like
Netlify status like this.
Whichever one you prefer.
What I wanna do is run Netlify in it and
this is going to give me options.
I can either connect it to
an existing site, or I can create and
configure a new one I wanna create,
create and configure a new site.
So I'm gonna hit Enter, and
then it's gonna ask me which team I want.
If you only have one team,
this will be a much simpler selection.
I am on a million teams,
I will choose my own site and
then I want to, let's do front end.
Masters, intro to Gatsby v2, that's
probably, that's probably unique name.
So I've named the site,
that's what the URL will be, and
you can see that here, how it's now set,
that'll be the URL for
the site unless I put
a custom domain on it.
And because it can tell that this is a
Gatsby site It's telling us it's going to
use Gatsby build.
All right, I'll use that default,
it knows that Gatsby has a public
folder great use that default.
We didn't use any Netlify function so
we can just move on past that.
But then here's the other cool thing
is because this is a Gatsby site.
It's gonna use this
essential Gatsby plugin.
And earlier when I was talking
about the keeping the cache and and
doing stuff to just make Gatsby
run a little bit better.
That's what this Gatsby plugin does.
So all of that and
then I can add this Netlify dot Tama
which keeps all those settings Okay.
Now there's one thing
that is different about
this setup than what you will
do if you're on the main branch,
which most of you, I think will be if
you've been building against this rebuild.
Then everything's gonna just work.
On my end because I just changed
the site to use the progress branch,
I have to go into here to site settings.
And I'm going to change the default branch
here to progress cuz I
wanted to use that one.
So then I'm going to go to my deploy and
cancel that one because
that's on the wrong branch.
And then I'm going to trigger anyone.
And so we can see that it is building.
This pulls in all the containers and
things that we would need
to actually run the site.
So it's installing node and
downloading the NPM modules and all that.
This is the first time that we're
building the site so there's no cache,
which means this one will
be a little bit slower.
And a couple of things to note because
we added that end VMRC it automatically
picked up on the node version
that we wanted to use.
It's also going to install
these plugins here, let's see.
It goes with the initial NPM install
which, again, Gatsby has a lot going on.
So the initial install of
Gatsby takes a little bit.
All right, so now we've got all
the dependencies we're actually building.
And you can see here that it's got this,
this Gatsby plugin installing.
And because it's the first build,
there's no Gatsby cache.
So it's running building fresh.
I am not using any of the redirects,
but there is an extra plugin.
If we wanted to add Gatsby redirects,
then the Gatsby site is gonna build
the way that we are building.
And this is different than no different
from any other way that you would build
a Gatsby site.
Just running the Gatsby build command.
And we got an error.
Cannot read Gatsby image data of no,
Distributed databases on the jam stack.
So apparently one of
our images is missing.
Well that's okay, we can fix that.
Let's go right in here and say If,
are we in the let's get into episode and
we can say episode dot image.
And we'll just do optional
chaining to get to it.
Okay, so something's wrong with
the data in my site that's not Gatsby,
that's my data entry.
So let's add everything get commit and
we'll say fix handle missing data.
Let's push that up and
now that we've configured the site,
what's nice is it'll
automatically start this rebuild.
So here goes.
>> One example I want.
For example, I want to,
to display a different,
cropped image in different
resolution preservation.
So how can I,
how can I benefit from Gatsby and
work with different images
cropped in different resolution?
>> I mean, the short answer is if you're
going to spend more time working around
it, then you would just do it on your own.
I think if you've got a very like,
specific thing you're trying to build,
it's easier to just build that.
So yeah, I think the ultimately
II would say you probably if you
want to control the picture,
just optimize your own images and
drop them in and
don't worry about Gatsby at all.
Because it's gonna fight you and try to
create each image as its own picture,
so yeah,
it would just be easier not use it.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Yeah, of course, and so
now the site is built, the site is live.
Anybody can go and
visit this now it's on the Internet at
the front end masters intro
to Gatsby v2.Netlify.app.
And all of these things that we wanted
to use are there working and running,
you can get in there and
mess with them right now.
So this is a very straightforward
way to get things done and
it's nice and fast so this first one
on fresh build was two minutes and
51 seconds and that built 220 pages or so.
Including the because it built
the schedule pages as well.
And that is pretty neat, so
then if we wanna go and make a change.
And add new information, right?
And then I will commit everything and
we'll just say add some new markup oops,
get push.
And because things are cached,
the site's gonna build a lot faster.
Now this is a feature of Gatsby three,
where they've basically made the cache
more intelligent, and they don't rebuild
pages that don't need to be rebuilt.
So what we'll see is that we've
already got node installed,
we've already got the node modules.
We've got a Gatsby cache here so we can
rely on that and move a lot more quickly.
So the Gatsby build should take like
closer to 15 seconds instead of a minute.
So it's one of those things where
keeping the cash around and
not cleaning things out is
gonna make a big difference.
Yeah, 19 seconds to build
the site that time, so
it gets much faster as you
keep that cash around.
I see a question?
>> Is there a way to deploy on
Netlify without it on address?
>> Meaning like,
is there a way to deploy to Netlify
without creating the .Netlify.app URL.
This is done, so
that you can review your work,
if you wanted to add a custom,
what you would do if you didn't
want the netlify.app is you
would add your own domain.
So if you've got a domain name that you
wanna use, you would add that on top.
And then this will redirect
to your custom domain name.
If you wanted to deploy to Netlify in
a way that nobody can access I think you
can set it to be like you need to enter
a password to see it
that maybe that's a paid
feature actually access control.
Can I set a password?
I think this might be, so
I have all the features,
so this one might be a thing,
but if I set like.
By set a password and I'll show you, so
that you can get in after I do this.
If I set a password and
then I go over here and
I try to load It's gonna say
that it wants a password and
I have to put that in, so
that's one way to solve that problem.
I'm gonna turn that off, so
that there's no password required.
But yeah, I don't, if that's not
what you're asking then I'm not,
can you rephrase the question?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Okay?
Yeah, it is an example of
custom domains like this.
This is my personal site,
this is deployed in LFI, but
I bought the domain jason.af, and so
I just use that as the root domain for it.
Any other questions?
>> Okay, occurring in the E-commerce
website with Gatsby for
example, I really do,
but I would make login,
user can log in, log out,
and add products.
And buy products like this product,
I can do it with Gadsby?
>> Sure, Gatsby does support we'll
talk a little bit more about like
client only routes and
how you would do authentication.
We won't actually do authentication, but
we'll show you what the process would be.
In the intermediate workshop
on in a couple of days, but
what you can do in the meantime
is is it store Gatsby.
Yeah, so this this is an E-commerce
store built on Gatsby,
I went back when I was there,
we put this together.
And this is pulling data from Shopify.
So Shopify data comes in all
the images and product prices that
are in everything are managed in Shopify,
and then you can add those to your cart.
And when you go to checkout, we rely
on the Shopify checkout because all
the different compliance and
address management shipping calculation.
All that stuff is a huge pain
that I don't wanna deal with, so
we just outsource that right to Shopify.
Stripe has a similar flow, where it
will let you manage all those things.
But then what we also did with
the Gatsby swag is we set it up,
that if you are a Gatsby contributor,
which we use auth zero for
this, you log in with
your GitHub account and
then once it redirects, here we go.
We check for whether or
not you are a contributor, and
if you are, we check whether or
not you've claimed your swag.
So there's a swag code
here that I've claimed,
and these swag codes are tied
to your user account.
So the fact that I'm showing this doesn't
matter because unless you have my
Shopify login, my email and address it
won't, it won't actually let you order.
So this is like a user authenticated
E-commerce experience built in Gatsby and
this is also open source.
So if you wanna see the source code for
this, you can find it.
On GitHub at the Gatsby js org store that
Gatsby js.org is the repo for this.
>> We will do a quantification
in the intermediate workshop.
>> We're not gonna do like
full on authentication.
If you wannao see how off works,
I would look at this, this repo.
>> Okay?
>> Because honestly, authentication it
is big enough to be its own course,
if we really dig into all
the things you can do with it.